Okay, ladies and gentlemen,
thanks for attending the session today.
My name is Benjamin Feinman.
I'm a senior product manager
in the QuickTime group,
and I focus on mobile
media delivery solutions.
Today, we're going to split our
time into two presentations.
One from Erickson, Eugene Sarmiento.
He's going to take you through
in a little bit more detail the
components of their mobile delivery
solution and talk a little bit about
how Apple integrates into that.
And then we have Dr.
David Guyard from Buick Telecom,
which is a major European operator
that we've been working
with on video services,
and he's going to take you through
what it takes to create and deliver
content from the operator's perspective.
And at the end,
we'll do just a little bit of Q&A.
So I'd like to invite up Eugene.
The clicker is now yours.
Good afternoon everybody.
My name is Eugene Sarmiento
as Ben mentioned earlier.
I'm a product marketing manager as well,
but mainly focusing on Ericsson's
content download and streaming solution.
How many of you here were
in yesterday's presentation?
[Transcript missing]
And in terms of opportunities
that we see in this space,
okay, according to Business Wire, right,
this is on the fixed side,
there was 7.87 billion streams in 2003.
That's 100% increase from
2002 or the year earlier.
And we see that same
expansion or growth going,
this is also going to happen
in the wireless space.
And just also from another analyst,
it's strategy analyst,
they see that in 2008,
over 150 mobile users will be
viewing video content and video
services generating $4.6 billion.
So this is one of the analysts.
Some are saying 6 billion,
some are saying a bit higher,
some are saying a bit lower,
but there's basically a lot of revenue
to be made in the wireless space.
Okay, now to give you an example of
what or which operators are
actually mature in wireless media,
I have two examples,
one from Japan where they have
launched a lot of 3G handsets.
They're going to increase their
subscriber base by six-fold.
And one of the operators there,
which is NTT DoCoMo,
they launched a service
called M Stage Visual,
which subscribers pay
for on a monthly fee,
and they also charge for
a transmission charge.
So the monthly fee is $1.8 to access
all the content in their portals,
and the transmission charge is
roughly 14 cents per minute of data.
Also in the same region,
we have South Korea Telecom,
who's also earning a lot
of money on mobile media.
They're earning an average of 7.5
US dollars on top of their existing
revenue because of the streaming and
download capabilities in their network.
Also in the same region,
we have South Korea Telecom,
who's also earning an average of 7.5
US dollars on top of their existing
revenue because of the streaming and
download capabilities in their network.
And it was surprising for the
CTO to see that people want
to view TV on a mobile phone.
And this is just an example of
what all the other operators
around the world could be.
This could be their
situation in the future.
Now apart from the opportunities,
Ericsson has also done its own
studies on what services subscribers
would like in the mobile media space.
So we surveyed 40,000 people around
the world in 11 countries actually,
and this was done by an internal
group called Consumer Lab,
which just looks into user
behavior and user statistics.
And specifically for streaming
and download of video content,
what they found out was there's three
main categories that people look for.
It's the music category.
the news and the sports categories.
[Transcript missing]
So, in the end-to-end chain from
creation of the content to the
actual delivery to the handset,
what are we doing in these
different processes or different
stages of the delivery of content?
From the content creation side,
as I said, we have mobility world,
we have partners,
we create packages of applications
that we match towards operators.
So, if we approach, for example,
a company called Amena in Spain,
the way we approach them
is we have a mobility world
representative and he says,
these are the things that we have,
a thousand different things,
pick and choose from them.
Or we give them also information
about how these services are,
if they're successful in other markets,
why they're successful,
what sort of revenues,
potential and business case.
What these applications have and
how it would impact their network.
So, from that side,
we have mobility world as well
as the tools that we sell with
our solution to enable operators
to create content on their own or
resell that content or actually
buy content from content providers.
On the other side, from the terminals,
the activities that we
mainly do is testing.
IoT testing.
We do IoT testing with our
own handsets as well as all
the other handsets from Nokia,
from Motorola,
from NEC and the rest of the
terminal suppliers across the globe.
So, we do support for that.
Now, our main offering and our main,
well, actually, our core competence in
Ericsson is delivery,
is integration and is
the wireless network.
Okay.
And that's why we focus on that.
In terms of transport,
we make sure that our platforms have the
features and functionality that interwork
with the core network and radio network,
that the quality of service is maintained
end-to-end between the handset,
the radio base stations,
the radio base stations
connected to our switches,
and then the switches connected
to our streaming solutions.
Okay.
So, we not only address the
features on the product itself.
But we also.
Develop features on the
radio and core side.
Apart from that, we do integrate or we
focus on business logic.
The product that we sell focuses
on the business logic that
will allow operators to charge,
to provision, and manage the different
nodes that we're introducing.
Because this is where we're coming from.
This is where Ericsson's competence is.
We've been building mobile network
technology and integrating this.
For more than 100 years.
So,
this is why we're focusing on this area.
Okay, so knowing our role and our
function in the end-to-end chain,
what's the challenges we see and
what challenges do operators see?
And I think my colleague from Buig
will be discussing their views as well.
But in our point of view,
there's four main areas that
are challenges in delivering
mobile media content.
First and foremost,
it's having the right content and the
right applications in operator networks.
It's still not that easy to
find that killer content.
Then there's the handsets,
the problem of making sure that
every single content is delivered.
And then there's the operator networks.
So we have to be able to integrate
the operator networks into handsets,
and those handsets can decode and
play the different formats that
are available in operator networks.
But apart from that,
we also look at end-to-end integration.
All right, let's say I have the content
out and my partners are set.
I have the handsets ready.
Next thing that the operator asks for,
or the next thing that is asked for,
is how do I integrate the solution?
How do I make sure that the
billing interfaces are set,
that the prepaid interfaces are set?
How about my integration
to customer care?
to network management?
And finally, of course,
there's how should I charge for this?
And this is still an unknown
area for a lot of operators.
There's so many ways
you can charge for this.
It could be subscription-based,
event-based, it could be volume-based,
it could be category-based,
it could be one-time fee,
or it could be combined with MMS,
it could be combined with voice.
There's so many things that could be
possible on a way to charge for this.
And that is a challenge because this
will actually make or break the service.
All right, so what's our solution?
What's Ericsson's solution for this?
Well, basically,
we have come up with a solution,
an end-to-end solution that addresses
or aims to address all the content,
all the relevant formats,
all the relevant protocols,
connecting that content to the
handsets or the devices that
will receive that content.
And what we've done in Ericsson,
or what we focused on Ericsson,
is the development of a
network integration node.
And what that does, of course,
is do the integration aspects,
basically develop features that
bring about our core competencies.
And what it does is it allows
us to have streaming services.
Now,
it could be a Sun streaming server or it
could be a QuickTime streaming server.
What we want to be,
what we want the system to be is
agnostic to its streaming server
or streaming platform because we
want to address the content space.
So if an operator says,
"I want this type of codec and
this other streaming server
provides it," then we put that in.
And I think QuickTime is really
helping us there in terms of
the new protocols that they're
supporting and 264 is coming up.
So it could happen that operators
will start asking for that,
and we will deliver it with that.
We do also provide content
upload for the content providers,
content storage rating for that content,
and a subscriber database to
hold the information about which
services that subscribers want.
Apart from that, I'd like to explain to
you how our solution,
which is ECDS,
fits into the radio network
and the core network.
The way it works today is we
have support for both circuit
switch and packet switch,
which is quite a key strength because
a lot of the existing solutions today
only address the packet switch space.
So we have a lot of different solutions.
We have a lot of different solutions.
This is more wireless
technology infrastructure.
So you have your radio base
stations connected to controllers,
controllers connected to gateways,
and then finally it's on the Internet or
within the operator's walled garden.
And then we have integration
to content creation,
content management, HLR,
and charging systems.
Okay?
So that's the first part.
So, I told you that one of the
challenges is integration and
that's why we focus on that.
We make sure that we have integration
points to the billing gateways,
we have integration points to
network management systems.
So, when we talk about network
management systems,
it could be HP OpenView,
it could be Compact TAMIP,
anything with SNMP support.
We have integration points towards
a AAA server where basically we
get the IP to MSISDN mapping.
Now, this is important because
on the wireless network,
you need to find out what MSISDN is
so that you can charge for it.
So, it's like if you look at it
from the web perspective,
it's your key to access
streaming services.
Okay, apart from that,
we're looking into integration
with or creating functions for MMS.
Okay, integration to that and VIG is a
video interactive gateway which allows
us to have circuit switch services.
Okay, on the encoder side,
we do sell products based on
QuickTime and we do promote
QuickTime based encoders like the
Final Cut Pro and the QuickTime Pro,
is it?
Yeah, QuickTime Pro.
But we do have also other
partners that we have.
we package along with our solution.
Okay.
Now, let's say we address
the integration part.
How did we address the application part?
How do we make sure that there's enough
applications out to the handsets?
Well, we have a Mobility World program
where we focus on making sure that
developers have the ability to create.
Then, after the creation process,
we take those applications,
verify it in our test labs,
make sure that it's tested properly,
it integrates with operator networks,
and then we go to market with that.
Okay.
From the developer's site,
we have www.ericsson.com
slash Mobility World.
Okay.
And there you'll have all the SDKs,
not just for streaming
and download services,
but you have APIs and SDKs for
location-based information,
for parlay services,
which is voice-related,
and there's also SDKs
on how you can push SMS.
So, basically,
anything with regard to mobile
network technologies and
providing applications on that,
you can find the development tools there.
We have support services, forums, and we,
of course,
have success stories of search.
We have certain application providers
who have made it big with us.
Okay.
On the verified side, we try to as much,
since we package
Applications and services
towards operators,
we need to make sure that
it's tested very well because
basically we do first-line
support for those applications.
And the first thing the operator says is,
Erickson,
why doesn't your application work?
So we need to do very stringent
tests on these applications,
and we do that through a process,
and we have a lot of things that we
look into in the testing process.
After the testing and verification,
then we go to the market.
And there's roughly 30 centers
worldwide where we have
mobility world representatives.
And these mobility world representatives,
the only thing they do
is sell applications.
They go to each operator and ask them,
"What do you want?
Where are your services headed?
How can we help you?"
And that allows you,
as an application developer,
to push your content without
actually having the manpower
to fly across all the globe.
So we do the front end for you.
On the terminal side,
we're heavily relying on the standard,
as is Apple.
And we've been drivers for
the packet switch streaming
standard for a while now.
During the times when it was
three or four years ago when I was
trying to sell streaming solutions,
but a lot of the streaming
solutions were proprietary.
There was a proprietary
codec from guys from Seattle,
proprietary codec from this guy,
and there's like four solutions,
all proprietary.
And we couldn't live with that.
As Ericsson, being a driver for standards
and being a driver for GSM,
we needed to make sure that there
is a standard way to transfer
these files and encode these files.
And we did that through the
packet switch streaming standard.
So what came out of that
is UA prof information,
which basically allows you to
find out the terminal capabilities
of the phones that you send.
And we also have a standard for
the data that you send content to
or is retrieving content from you.
There is a specific standard on DRM,
but it's very limited.
It took them a day and a half to hack it,
and now it's not that
difficult to hack that.
And then for the codecs, we have AMR,
narrowband, wideband, AAC,
which is the next generation MP3,
H263 and MPEG-4.
H264 is coming in R6.
We have scalable polyphony, media.
And as you can see, all the things that
Apple has been working with,
RTSP, RTPSDP, these are things that is
in the standard as well.
Apart from that,
we have for scene descriptions,
SMILE 2.0, and for text and images,
we have the following.
You can get this off of the 3GPP site,
www.3gpp.org.
You can get the latest information
of what's happening in the standards.
Okay,
so that's addressing the terminal space.
I think now I'll focus mainly on
what we've done with other customers,
or some of our customers.
I'll focus on three because the rest,
we actually have roughly 15 customers,
but I can't really disclose them to you.
But I have three samples
that I will be discussing.
All right,
so we have Mobitel in Slovenia.
They were our first customer, actually,
and they started launching
their services in 2003.
And in terms of services,
they listened to us and put news,
put sports, and put music content there.
Apart from that,
they had their own thinking of
putting a lot of adult content,
which is really taking up there.
Don't know why.
Okay.
But yeah.
They also have live TV.
And in their launch,
during less than two weeks
since the introduction,
they had 100,000 clicks
to various erotic content.
Well, we'll see maybe that's
the way forward for this,
but there was a lot of interest
in special weather programs
where people were stripping,
and there was a lot of
services around that.
Now, basically what happened
is after they launched,
after a year of launch,
they were able to penetrate
40% of their subscribers.
So that's quite a quick penetration rate.
I mean, that's one of the best they have,
actually,
in their span of launching services.
And right now they have
roughly 445,000 users.
They are growing at 8,000 per month.
So big.
So they could reach 100 pretty soon.
In terms of content providers,
we have given them
some content providers,
and we've given them support in
providing them with the content
that they're looking for.
Okay, so we have discussions now
ongoing with Sony Music and MTV.
Another operator that we
work with is Amena Spain.
They have been very good
supporters of Ericsson.
And they launched services such
as TV programs from Canal+.
And they have also music,
sports, cinema, and fashion content.
In terms of content providers,
there is Grupo Prista,
which is a media company in Spain.
And the way they charge for
this is basically... Ah,
one thing that I missed on
the other slide was charging.
All right.
The way they charge for these
services is they charge on the time
the person is browsing content.
So it's time-based.
For Amena Spain,
they charge on time-based
charging as well.
And there's no specific charge.
But they're now looking
into prepaid support.
And once that happens,
I think then they'll
go into the broad base.
Because if you look at Europe,
it's mainly prepaid subscribers there.
Okay, then there's Telefonica.
They launched in December 2003.
They launched almost the same
time as Amana because they're
competing with one another.
And they have the same set of services.
They have Spanish TV channels.
And in terms of charging,
they do have prepaid support today,
and we did that for them.
Apart from the success that
they have with the service,
what I haven't really said here is
the integration that we've done.
Integration into fault
management systems,
integration into their
content management systems.
And we've been very successful
in quickly deploying that.
Actually, we had one customer where they
wanted to launch within a month
and we were able to deliver.
Actually, it took us one week to install,
two weeks to integrate.
That was one of our best times
in integrating a platform
for one of our operators.
And the price levels for
Telefonica is one euro per video.
Another important customer
that we have is Sunrise.
And the difference between Sunrise
and Telefonica is that we have
a lot of different customers.
And the difference with this one is we
provide them with a hosting service.
So they don't have anything.
We provide everything from the platform,
the streaming servers,
and the applications,
and we aggregate that content for them.
They only pay us for usage, basically.
And this has been very successful.
They launched in July 2003.
We've used a lot of the
Mobility World Partners,
EMW.
That's Ericsson Mobility World Partners.
They price per clip.
That's the difference with the
rest of my previous examples.
So they price per clip.
And they also have subscriptions
for groups of content.
So you pay a subscription fee,
let's say HBO content,
and then premium prices
for each of the clips.
We recently launched with them Emuse,
which is a music service.
And this music service,
allows subscribers to look into,
let's say, Britney Spears' website,
and find out the latest
information about her,
her ringtones, her music,
and also the music.
Ask for MMS content that
they can show their friends.
And we had in Asia last year a slogan,
which is make money by
making people famous.
Because how operators will make
money is if they can make the
subscribers famous with their friends.
Oh, look, I have the latest football
goal in Euro 2004 by,
let's say, Portugal.
Or maybe here,
if it's the San Francisco Giants.
Oh, here's the latest tackle.
All right.
Summary.
There is a lot of opportunities,
and it's happening now.
It didn't happen as much last year,
but this year we see a
lot of positive results,
both with our operators and with
operators that have launched
streaming and download services.
Ericsson wants to be
your business partner,
and we want to take you to our operators.
We'd like you to join us in
Ericsson's Mobility World program.
The link is there.
If you need to get contacts,
just please approach me and be part
of the mobile and media convergence.
Thank you.
Thank you, Eugene,
for an excellent presentation.
So coming up next, we've got Dr.
David Guyard, who's going to now talk
about a similar topic,
but from the perspective of an operator.
So with that, I'll hand over the clicker.
My name is there.
It doesn't move.
It doesn't change.
I work in the Department of
New Technologies at Bouygues Telecom.
It's a French operator.
I will make a brief
presentation in a moment.
The topic of this presentation is
video services of a mobile network.
And here are the different
aspects I will deal with.
First, I will speak about my company,
because we are a small operator.
And it's interesting to know why
we are making video right now.
I will talk a little bit about iMODE.
But my colleague in next time slot
will have a deeper presentation of it,
I think.
So I will be rapid.
I will also talk about the
network constraints and the type
of networks we are operating,
and also the handsets,
because it is one of the most
limiting devices to deploy video.
And then I will go
deeper into the subject,
that is I will present two simple
services that are launched,
that is video mail and video downloads.
And as a conclusion, I will make some
Talk about future trends,
both in the content aspects,
how to encode the content,
and the transport problems,
how will the transport
evolve in the future.
And that will be all.
So Buick Telecom.
In the previous slide,
there was a way to pronounce it.
It's very difficult to
pronounce it for American.
So the network started in 1996.
We have 6 million subscribers.
It's approximately 18%
market share in France.
And we are operating GSM/GPRS network.
We have a nationwide coverage
for both technologies.
And since we are only French operator,
we have a lot of roaming agreement
around the world that makes us possible
to have access to iMODE services
while we are being here in the States.
So it's quite important for us.
We intend to evolve our network.
In 2005, we are making some sort of test
in France with Edge technology,
which is a very important
evolution for us because we will,
from one day to the other,
gain a nationwide coverage as a
position to 3G networks that most
of the time operate on spots.
And with Edge,
we will gain a four-fold throughput.
So very interesting to have
bigger files to download,
for instance.
In 2002, we launched iMODE.
Internet for the mobile phones,
but in a simpler way than, for instance,
WAP, because it reuses protocols
existing for the web.
So mainly it's HTTP based,
and it uses email instead of MMS.
One particularity of it is that the
operators specify completely the services
and also the phone functionalities.
That is, with other operators,
we exactly define the
layout of the phones,
the functionality that's inside,
the keyboard, everything,
so that the users exactly know
from an ergonomic point of
view how to operate this phone,
which is not always the case
with very sophisticated phones.
The idea behind that is to make it very
simple for everyone to use the services.
So far we have mostly 10% of
our clients that have shifted
to iMODE since we launched it.
And finally, well that is the topic
of the presentation,
we launched with this one,
we launched the video services
end of May of this year.
So back on iMOD in a few words.
It is a technology that
is licensed from NTT.com.
We deployed it in 2000 in Japan.
It is licensed to, I think,
approximately 10 operators worldwide,
mostly in Europe and one in Australia.
It has 42 million users,
so it's quite important.
Well, maybe 40 million in Japan,
but it's increasing overseas.
I think there is a
problem with the slides,
something that comes again.
Concerning the network,
For packet data, we use GPRS.
That is,
we have throughputs in the range of 40
kilobits per second in the downlink and
20 kilobits per second in the uplink.
It is the best effort network.
That is, well,
if you don't have any radio resource,
then you have to wait a little bit.
And most of that,
you also have the fact that
voice may be primitive over data.
That is, that if a lot of people
want to place phone calls,
then you have to wait for your content.
Handsets is a big limitation today.
Most of the JPRS handsets are 3+1,
that is they can support 30 kilobits
in the downlink and 10 in the uplink.
It's a little less than the
theoretical throughput available.
For the IMOD onsets,
we specified that they should
support 3GP file format.
That is for the video,
they use H.263 on MPEG-4 video
codecs in resolution SQCIF,
that is 176 by 144 pixels.
Joseph Kucif.
And for the audio, we use two codecs,
one dedicated to voice,
which is IMR that comes
from the GSM world,
and the other one which is AAC.
We have a very simple data
protection for Wordlock.
It's very simple but still very
efficient because we specify
the phone in a manner that the
content can't go outside the phone.
So even that very weak protection is
enough to convince the content provider
to be confident in the technology.
And from the recording point of view,
we have found we're equipped
with camera so that we can send a
video as an attachment to email.
So if we look at-- there are
two constraints when you design
video clips for mobile phones.
One constraint is the time
that people have to wait
before they can see the clip.
That is, if I go onto a website,
I click on the URL for the clip.
If I wait more than 30 seconds,
then I don't wait more than 30 seconds.
I quit.
We made some tests two years ago,
and that was a conclusion
for 90% of the users.
When we combine this constraint
with the fact that we have a very
limited throughput on the network,
we end up with a constraint on the file
size that is approximately 100 kilobytes.
And if you look at the table,
then you can see that the
download duration time on
Edge is approximately between 20,
30 seconds.
And the upload duration
is more important.
It's 80 seconds.
One thing interesting to see is that
the phones today are not operated
by a multitask operating system.
So when I download a
clip from the website,
well, I wait,
but I can't do anything else.
If I sent an email with
a video attachment,
it's the same problem.
So from a user perspective,
it's very problematic,
and we have to find some solution.
And one solution is you
increase the bandwidth,
so you go to Edge,
and then you have shorter
upload/download time.
And that is the way we're going to.
We also have a problem with video quality
because if we have very small files,
if we want to have a duration
acceptable that is in the range of 15,
20 seconds to give the users
a piece of information,
not only a still image,
then we can't have
video bitrate very high.
We are in the range between
32 to 64 kilobits per second.
I will show you later on what is the
type of quality that we can have on very
hard content that is on football games,
for instance.
If we look at video mail services,
it's a service very intuitive
because it's like an email.
You just shoot video with your phone,
and then you open the email.
Email client on the phone,
you put the video as an
attachment and you sent it.
Very clever, very simple.
Or if you have the
authorization to do so,
if the video that you downloaded
from the web is not a lot,
then you can forward it to someone else.
I said iMod is reusing some
technologies existing on the web,
so what is good with that is that
you can address any email on the web,
so almost everybody.
And also you can address
some MMS recipient if you
have their phone number.
There is in fact a getaway into the
network that makes some translation
between the email format and the MMS.
On the recipient side, well,
you could have different case.
If it is inside an iMod network,
then it's very easy.
There is no problem.
If we talk to an OMS client,
that's what I talked about.
And if you talk to someone
on a PC on a fixed network,
then you can look at the video using,
for instance, QuickTime,
which is very easy to get.
Video download is the other service.
So it's HTTP download.
It has a little overhead
during the transportation,
so we had to think about that when
we look at how to charge the content.
And it's very important because
the users pays for transport.
Here I put different captures
in order to show you the steps.
The idea is when I go
onto the iMODE portal,
there is-- maybe I'll show you in a
moment-- there is a touch on the keypad.
And the keypad, if you press it,
you just go onto the website.
And this is the portal
you see on the left.
And then it's very
similar to web navigation.
So I'm going to show you a video clip.
If we can switch to the camera.
We can put the light a little down.
I will play it again before
making some comments.
So as I mentioned, there is a fixed--
You can see the length of the video here.
Well, it's a little better on
the screen of the phone,
because there is
degradation in the process.
But there you can see the size.
Well,
you have duration of about 12 seconds.
It's a video clip encoded
at 64 kilobits per second.
And there is no audio on it.
So that gives you an idea of the
kind of quality you can have.
That type of content is
very hard to encode because,
well, there is the grass with
a lot of tiny details.
There is a lot of moving objects
that are the players and also
some small objects like the ball.
So you end up in having
that type of quality.
Could we switch back to the other,
please?
So if we look at how all that is charged,
we have on iMOD something very simple.
Well, at least in the beginning
it was very simple,
but it's very hard to live
with it while it evolves.
It is simple in the fact that
we charge one cent by kilobyte.
So if you just make email, that's right,
because an email is something
in the kilobyte range,
two or three kilobytes.
And when you start to download files
that are in the range of 100 kilobytes,
then it makes you something
like a euro or a dollar,
which is approximately
the same for a video,
and starts to be really expensive.
And on top of that,
the economic model that the content
provider want to use is the same
as the Ringtone economic model that
is they want to charge for a video.
So if you subscribe for a month,
and during that month you
could get a number of videos,
and at the moment it's in the
range of two to five videos.
So I will talk a little
bit about content creation.
Some consequences of the
file size that we have.
Since it is very limited,
then we need to work on the video.
And while it's not our job,
but we have to help the content
providers to work on that.
The story about this is, in iMOD,
we have content providers
coming from a reasons that
are very different from video.
We have people making newspapers,
we have people selling ringtones,
and all of a sudden they want to
put some video on their websites.
And we have to tell them, well,
if you want to do so,
you have to use such tools,
you have to follow such rules, and, well,
we have to define those rules.
So video sequence must be very simple,
that is, not too many sinkers.
There might be a contradiction with
the kind of trailers that we can
see where everything is going very
fast and in the end you don't see
anything if you encode it right away.
We have to also optimize the sound.
The sound is something very -- to
which the user is very sensitive,
in fact.
If you put two videos with soundtracks
encoded at different qualities,
then although they are the same,
the users will prefer the
one with the best soundtrack.
So we have to live with that.
And there are some contents.
For instance, if you have a news,
then someone is speaking,
you can use without any
problem a voice codec.
But if you have someone singing,
if I start to sing right now,
if I want to encode that,
then if I want to encode that,
if I use an iMarketDec,
it's the end of the world because
there will be some glitches in the
soundtrack and it's unacceptable.
So we also have to define
how to encode that.
And to do so, we have the AAC codec,
which also requires a higher bit wedge.
So there is a compromise between
the amount of data that you put
into the audio and the amount
of data you have in the video.
For the digital right management,
there are several ways to do it.
At the moment,
the only tool that we have to create
content and to have the protection is
QuickTime Pro that completely supports
the file format defined by Entity.como.
And while it can be seen as a limitation
for certain content providers.
But it enables the protection.
If we have a look at different
parameters we can use,
here there is the different profiles
optimized for duration or video quality.
And you can see the
video quality and audio.
I'm looking for the-- OK,
duration is there.
So if you want a high quality
video that was the parameter
set for the football sequence,
then you encode at 64 kilobits per
second with 10 to 15 frames per second.
That number of frames per second
is largely sufficient due to
the definition of the image.
And you can use an IMR codec
or you can not use an ECODEC.
if you just want to emphasize the action.
And then if you don't mind that
much about the video or if you
have something very static like
head and shoulder sequence,
you can encode the video at 32
kilobits per second and you end up
with a duration that is twice the
duration of the high quality video.
If you look how it works in QuickTime,
well, when you export a file,
you have a source file,
a clean source file in QuickTime.
When you export it to 3GPP file format,
you have different tabs in which you
can select the format of the file.
So there it's the mobile MPEG-4.
It's the format defined by entity.
It's exactly the same thing as 3GP,
except that there is
the DRM on top of it.
You can define the definition,
also if there is a nodule tracker or not.
And then,
You specify all your
encoded audio on the video,
and it's very intuitive to do it.
So it's a really nice tool.
Well,
so all that is what can be done today.
The service has just been launched,
so we don't have any
figures to provide to say,
well, it works very well,
or the users are really
satisfied with the quality.
Still,
we are working to define the service
we will have in the coming years,
taking into account the
evolution of the network.
And that's why I'm talking
about the future trends.
Concerning the contents,
one big need is the
improved encoding tools.
Someone yesterday mentioned the fact
that MPEG-2 is now all standard,
that improves every day
in coding efficiency.
MPEG-4 has hit the market very recently,
so we evaluated a few tools
and we have similar results,
but we think it could be really improved
by the use of two-pass encoding,
for instance,
better analysis of the sequences.
And also we think that the encoder,
the core of the encoder will also evolve.
We hope so.
We hope there will be
a lot of progress done.
Then we can increase the file
size in order to have longer
clips or to increase the quality.
So here there is a trade-off,
what the users in the end want.
And it's not a very easy question because
depending on how we charge the content,
what if I charge one euro for ten
seconds of video and if I charge
two euros for ten seconds of video,
but with a file that is twice the size,
then maybe the users,
although the video quality is better,
they won't understand.
So we really have a problem
of how to charge the content.
Then what you saw on the phone is
a phone with a QVGR resolution.
So you put a QC content on QVGR.
You can zoom it.
You can make it full screen.
But then you have some artifacts
due to the extrapolation.
One interesting thing would
be to increase the image
definition in the 3GP file.
If you do that,
then if you go from QC to QVisio,
then the surface of the image is doubled,
mostly doubled.
It means that if you want
to keep the same quality,
you have to double the file size.
So it's a never-ending problem.
Whatever you change,
you have to improve something.
So we can look at the encoding tools.
We can also look at the codecs.
There is the H.264 MPEG-4
AVC that is being introduced.
There has been some
press release and so on.
We should gain from that
50%. For the same quality,
we should gain 50%. But we are waiting
for something working for mobile phones,
because we have the encoder
problem and also the availability
of colleagues for the phones.
And then another improvement
could be the use of AAC+, where
we could achieve higher audio
quality for half the bandwidth.
So also an improvement we're waiting.
For the content,
there are two evolutions.
One is progressive download,
because as mentioned earlier,
If my file size is too long,
and if I have to wait until the
end of the file size is downloaded,
then maybe that waiting time
is too long for me and I quit.
So the idea with progressive download
is to start downloading the file,
and as soon as there is
enough data into the buffer,
start playing it.
So this improves the user
experience with a click and play.
I click, it plays.
And it allows encoding of some
contents with higher bitrate than the
available throughput on the network.
So that's very interesting if we want
to increase the quality of the image.
Then the other way is to look
at streaming for video on
demand or for live channels.
It's possible today,
but one limitation is that if
we have one user streaming at 40
kilobits per second in a cell,
then it might be the only
GPRS user in the cell.
So it's a strong
And it will be possible more
easily when Edge is deployed and,
of course, UMTS.
A problem with that is we need to
introduce new elements in the network.
We need to introduce streaming server.
We need to define an architecture that is
That is good, both for us and for
the content providers,
because there are big content
providers like TV channels.
They can host streaming at home.
But there are small content providers.
We doubt that they will be
able to put the money and the
knowledge to make the investment
of the money and the knowledge.
So we have a big problem.
So that is the where.
The Omni is also in the range of this.
It's also the same kind of problem.
A big argument that is often given,
the argument is, well,
if you put some streaming,
if you have live streaming,
it is for specific events
like a football match.
That is, when there is a football match,
you will send SMS to
the users and you say,
well, there has been a goal.
And what you expect is that everybody
is going to go to the streaming
server and make some requests.
And if the dimensioning of
the network is not good,
then you have a big problem.
It doesn't work.
So, how many is something very,
very difficult to resolve.
One last point is,
one of the last point is the
interoperability problem,
as was mentioned in the
previous presentation.
You can have,
you can find a lot of brands of
streaming server that may not
be interoperable between them.
And we have to be sure that
the day we launch the service,
we don't have any problem with that
because the user won't understand.
And last evolution about the
content is how we charge it.
Well, I talked a little about that.
So if we increase the file size,
then automatically the price
tend to increase with the
business model we have today.
Another problem might come
from the standard bodies,
because if you read
into the 3GPP standards,
then the MPEG-4 profile that
is used is limited in bitrate.
And theoretically,
we could not go beyond that bitrate today
with what we have in the specification.
So we have a problem.
It might not be a problem because
with the phone I show you,
you could put video with higher bitrate.
So we just could say, well,
we don't mind.
Except if one day we have a
manufacturer that says that,
well, it was not in the specification and
I can't support 128 kilobit per second.
For content providers,
we have a problem of compatibility.
That is,
if I launch a terminal today that
supports a certain amount of codecs,
And one year after I start
to ship H.264 terminals,
then a content provider,
what it will do is it will say, well,
I have one encoding chain.
I will shift my encoding chain to H.264.
And for the guys who bought
a phone one year ago,
then it doesn't work anymore.
And we have to deal with that.
And every time we think about the
specification of future phones,
we keep that in mind.
So also the content creation
tools are important.
I talked about increasing
the performance of them.
There is also the fact how to manage
different profiles for different phones.
The last point we foresee as a
big problem is the DRM aspects.
There are already a lot of phones on
the market shipping with memory cards.
And on those phones,
DRM is not always handled properly.
And we have to be very careful about that
because without any protection solution,
there is no content
provider that follows.
The future trends and difficulties
that we will have to face as operators
and also as providers of solutions
for encoding and terminal solutions,
for instance.
Okay.
Thank you.